# Version 2.0

## Data Generation

Geode 2.0 includes a lot of improvement of the previously clunky and unreliable Data Generation system.

### Blocks

Added an advanced and very complete Data Generation runnable for blocks.

#### Features

- Generation of name for the block, both as a `BlockItem` (using a translation key of `block.NAMESPACE.BLOCK_NAME`),
  and as a separate providable item (using a standard item translation key of `item.NAMESPACE.ITEM_NAME`).
- Generation of block summary/description translation for blocks that use the `BlockSummary` interface. If the block
  item is a separate item, see the new item features section.
- Generation of any generic translation key using the block's translation key as the prefix.
- Generation of the `BlockState` definition of the block. This includes:
    - A `variant` based system, consuming a list of `model` and a `transformation` for each possible `BlockState`
      variant.
    - A `multipart` based system, consuming conditions/model configuration pairs, allowing for a more flexible and
      complex `BlockState` definition.
- Generation of the `LootTable` definition of the block, when the block is dropped.
- Generation of any `block tag` this block might be in, as well as `item tags` if it has a `BlockItem` tied to it (or if
  another `Item` is supplied as the `BlockItem` of this block).

### Items

The previous Data Generation of items was very limited. This version of Geode improves it a lot.

#### Features

- Generation of `model` for the item.
- Generation of `item` definition for the item.
- Generation of item summary/description translation for items that use the `ItemSummary` interface.
- Generation of any `item tag` this item might be in.
- Generation of any generic translation key using the item's translation key as the prefix.

### Sounds

Sound file generation in Geode previously was incomplete, and has been improved and finalized to a working version in
Geode 2.0.

#### Features

- Addition of the `sound` method in the `SoundRunnable` builder class specifying what sound file is present in the
  `SoundEvent` (which had been forgotten about).

### Generic

A lot of miscellaneous features have also been added to Geode's Data Generation system.

#### Features

- Generation of generic translation key, supplying the full name key and its translation.